feat(runtime): configure worker inhibition with direct-routing bypass (#11993)
ai-dynamo/dynamo: docs/fault-tolerance/README.md

See [Health Checks](../observability/health-checks.md) for details.

### Local Worker Inhibition

> After a request-path failure, a client temporarily removes that worker from its local routing set while service discovery propagates the worker's state. `DYN_INHIBITED_DURATION_SECS` sets the maximum local inhibition window and is read once during client initialization. The default is `5` seconds; set it to `0` to disable local inhibition. Discovery updates remain authoritative and can restore or remove workers sooner.

Reviewer: client here is a little confusing - maybe a 'runtime client'

Author: Thanks—updated this to “a runtime client” for clarity.

> After a request-path failure, a client temporarily removes that worker from its local routing set while service discovery propagates the worker's state. `DYN_INHIBITED_DURATION_SECS` sets the maximum local inhibition window and is read once during client initialization. The default is `5` seconds; set it to `0` to disable local inhibition. Discovery updates remain authoritative and can restore or remove workers sooner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a request-path failure, that worker is removed from the local routing set while service discovery propagates the worker's state. `DYN_INHIBITED_DURATION_SECS` sets the maximum local inhibition window and is read once during client initialization. The default is `5` seconds; set it to `0` to disable local inhibition. Discovery updates remain authoritative and can restore or remove workers sooner.
```

Author: Thanks. I kept the actor explicit to clarify that the worker is removed only from that runtime client’s local routing set, while adopting “runtime client” to resolve the ambiguity.

Changes to the environment variable take effect the next time the process starts.

> 

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. The runtime warning already identifies the invalid value and states that the five-second default is used, so we’ll keep the documentation focused on supported configuration values.

| Decode blocks threshold | `DYN_ACTIVE_DECODE_BLOCKS_THRESHOLD` | unset |
| Prefill tokens threshold | `DYN_ACTIVE_PREFILL_TOKENS_THRESHOLD` | unset |
| Prefill tokens fraction threshold | `DYN_ACTIVE_PREFILL_TOKENS_THRESHOLD_FRAC` | unset |

> | Local worker inhibition | `DYN_INHIBITED_DURATION_SECS` | `5` seconds (`0` disables) |

Reviewer: Question: does this effect direct, and random and round robin?

I think semantically it should only effect random and round robin - direct should go through without inhibition - is that feasible?

Author: Yes—implemented. Random and round-robin remain inhibition-filtered; direct dispatch honors the selected worker while it remains in discovery.
